.TH QCTL 8 "13 Jan 2013"
.SH NAME
qctl \- control tool for qico ftn mailer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qctl
.RB [ \-PawqQRKfoprskxHhv ]
.RB [
.I node
]
.RB [
.I files
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qctl
is a control tool for qico ftn mailer.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-P port
Connect to
.I port.
default port is service 'qicoui' or 60178.
.TP
.BI \-a host
Connect to
.I host.
default host is localhost (127.0.0.1).
.TP
.BI \-w password
Use
.I password
for connect to server. also may request password from user, if
.I password
is '-' (-w-).
.TP
.BI \-q
Stop
.B qico
daemon.
.TP
.BI \-Q
Queue rescan.
.TP
.BI \-R
Reread config.
.TP
.BI \-K
Kill outbound for
.I node.
.TP
.BI \-f
Query info about
.I node.
.TP
.BI \-o
Query queue.
.TP
.BI \-p
Poll
.I node.
.TP
.BI \-r
Request files
.I files
from
.I node.
.TP
.BI \-s
Send
.I files
to
.I node.
.TP
.BI \-k
Kill attached files after transmission (for
.I \-s
).
.TP
.BI \-x status
Set or reset node status, where
.I status
is:
.B U
(undialable),
.B W
(wait), or
.B I
(immediate). Capital letter for set flag, or small for unset.
.TP
.BI \-H tty
Hangup session on
.I tty.
.TP
.BI \-h
Print help message.
.TP
.BI \-v
Print version message.
.SH SEE ALSO
qico(8), qcc(8)

qico homepage,
http://qico.sourceforge.net/
.SH AUTHORS
Stepan Pologov <sisoft@bk.ru>, and others:
 Cyril Margorin <cyrilm@tower.pp.ru> (official branch),
 Lev Serebryakov <lev@serebryakov.spb.ru> (up to 0.49.9),
 Pavel Kurnosoff <pqr@yasp.com> (up to 0.45pl3.1).
 Mitry Matyushkov <r45c at mail dot ru> (qicoxe branch).
 Robert James Clay <jame at rocasa dot us> (after 0.57.1).
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs at http://sourceforge.net/p/qico/bugs/
