.TH QICO 8 "13 Jan 2013"
.SH NAME
qico \- an FTN compatible mailer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qico
.RB [ \-hdfbntTvc ]
.RB [
.B \-a
.I type
]
.RB [
.B \-i
.I host
] [
.I node
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qico
is an FTN compatible mailer with many features, such as:
dynamic configuration, color ncurses frontend, chat, outbound manager.
It supports emsi and binkp protocols over modem and/or tcp/ip.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d
Start
.B qico
in daemon (originate) mode.
.TP
.BI \-f
Start
.B qico
in foreground (originate) mode.
.TP
.BI \-b
Use Binkp protocol.
.TP
.BI \-n
Run
.B qico
nodelist compiler.
.TP
.BI \-t
Test configuration files and exit.
.TP
.BI \-T
Test configuration files and exit (verbose mode).
.TP
.BI \-c\ type
Call node. May have suffix:
    N (normal),
    I (immediately),
    A (force).
.TP
.BI \-a\ type
Start
.B qico
in answer mode, with
.I type
session.
.BR
.I type
can be:
.BR
  auto - autodetect,
.BR
  **EMSI_INQC816 - EMSI session,
.BR
  binkp - Binkp session.
.TP
.BI \-i\ host
hostname or ip address for tcp/ip calls.
.TP
.BI \-h
Print help message.
.TP
.BI \-v
Print version message.
.SH SEE ALSO
qctl(8), qcc(8), inetd(8), mgetty(8)

qico homepage:
.BR
     http://qico.sourceforge.net/
.BR
     http://193.232.248.13:8080/qicoxe/
.SH AUTHORS
 Stepan Pologov <sisoft@bk.ru>, and others:
 Cyril Margorin <cyrilm@tower.pp.ru> (official branch),
 Lev Serebryakov <lev@serebryakov.spb.ru> (up to 0.49.9),
 Pavel Kurnosoff <pqr@yasp.com> (up to 0.45pl3.1).
 Mitry Matyushkov <r45c at mail dot ru> (qicoxe branch).
 Robert James Clay <jame at rocasa dot us> (after 0.57.1).
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <r45c at mail dot ru>
